[2201.7.0] - Add symbol enter revamp change (#7157)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.7.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md

If you have not installed Ballerina, download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

## Backward-incompatible changes
- Fixed a bug that sets broad type for constants instead of singleton type.

>   ```ballerina
>   const int CONST = 1 + 7;
>   CONST num = 2;
>   ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```ballerina
    const int CONST = 1 + 7;
    CONST num = 2;
    ```

````

>   Now, the code produces an error: `incompatible types: expected '8', found 'int'`. Similarly, the following assignment in the function scope also results in an error: `incompatible types: expected 'SingletonType', found 'int'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in a compilation error now since `num` can only be integer `8`.
```

>   ```ballerina

Reviewer: Fix indentation here also.

  const int CONST = 3 + 5;
  type SingletonType CONST;
  
  public function main() {
    SingletonType num = 3;
  }

>   ```

Reviewer: Do we really need this second example? The first one conveys the change, right?

Author: Yes. Removed

> - Fixed a bug that caused a runtime error instead of a compile-time error for constant declarations containing duplicate keys in computed fields in mapping constructor expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A bug that resulted in compilation errors not being logged for duplicate keys via computed name fields of a mapping constructor in a map constant declaration has been fixed. This previously resulted in a runtime panic instead.
```

Author: Yes it should result in compilation error. I will create an issue.

Author: https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues/40727

  ```ballerina
  const NAME = "name";
  const map<string> person = {name : "Joe", [NAME] : "Jack"};
  ```

>   Now, this produces an error: `invalid usage of finite literal: duplicate key 'name'`.

Reviewer: Not necessary IMO. The actual error doesn't really matter? You can add a comment in the code like "Compilation error now."

>   Now, this produces an error: `invalid usage of finite literal: duplicate key 'name'`.

Reviewer: Also is this error correct? The spec doesn't say "finite". Let's create an issue to track fixing this.

Author: I will create an error

## Backward-incompatible changes

- A bug that caused the broader type to be used instead of the singleton type when a constant is used as a type descriptor has been fixed. 

  This may result in compilation errors that were previously not identified.

    ```ballerina
    const int CONST = 1 + 7;
    CONST num = 2;
    ```
  
  This results in a compilation error now since `num` can only be integer `8`.

  
- A bug that resulted in compilation errors not being logged for duplicate keys via computed name fields of a mapping constructor in a map constant declaration has been fixed. This previously resulted in a runtime panic instead.

    ```ballerina
    const NAME = "name";

>     const map<string> PERSON = {name : "Joe", [NAME] : "Jack"}; // Compilation error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    const map<string> PERSON = {name: "Joe", [NAME]: "Jack"}; // Compilation error now.
```

Reviewer: Can we think of a more real-world use case? A map or errors, error codes, etc.?

        department
    };
    ```
  
- A bug that caused the broader type to be used instead of the singleton type when a constant is used as a type descriptor has been fixed.

  This may result in compilation errors that were previously not identified.

    ```ballerina
    const int CONST = 1 + 7;

>     CONST num = 2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    CONST num = 2; // Compilation error now.
```

    ```
  

>   This results in a compilation error now since `num` can only be integer `8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This results in a compilation error now since `num`, which is of type `CONST`, can only be integer `8`.
```

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - A bug that resulted in compilation errors not being logged for duplicate keys via computed name fields of a mapping constructor in a map constant declaration has been fixed. This previously resulted in a runtime panic instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A bug that resulted in compilation errors not being logged for duplicate keys via computed name fields of a mapping constructor in a mapping constant declaration has been fixed. This previously resulted in a panic at runtime instead.
```

### Improvements

#### Improved resolving logic of module level constructs.

With this new feature,

- Made the type node in constant declarations optional. Both of the following cases are valid.

    ```ballerina
    const map<string> PERSONA = {firstName: "Emily", lastName: "Johnson"};

>     const PERSONB = {firstName: "David", lastName: "Thompson"};

Reviewer: Again, may make sense to have something like an error data structure rather than person.

Author: error type is not yet supported for constants. Are you referring to something like this `const HTTPDTAILS = {httpCode: 200, message: "OK"};`

Reviewer: Yeah, maybe calling it something like `HTTP_OK`.

    ```
  
- Allowed union types as valid type nodes for constant declarations.

    ```ballerina
    const float|decimal TOTAL = 1 + 2.0;
    ```

> - Revamped the logic for resolving module type definitions to properly handle cyclic type definitions.

Reviewer: I would split this into 3 separate improvements => 3 headings.

Author: Maybe first two can be included under same heading like `Improve constant resolving logic`. WDYT?
@MaryamZi

Reviewer: It's two different things that add value to the user, right? So it's OK to have two different points IMO.

Author: Okay. I will update that.

```

### Improvements

> - Made the type node in module-level constant declarations optional. Both of the following cases are valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Made the type node in constant declarations optional. Both of the following cases are valid.
```

Constants are only allowed at module-level.

> - Made the type node in module-level constant declarations optional. Both of the following cases are valid.

Reviewer: We usually add titles for improvements.  See https://ballerina.io/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.3.0#improvements.

Author: Added

    ```ballerina
    const map<string> personA = {FirstName : "Emily", LastName : "Johnson"};

>     const personB = {FirstName : "David", LastName : "Thompson"};

Reviewer: Use uppercase for constants. Field names should start with lowercase letters. Fix formatting.

    ```
  
- Allowed union types as valid type nodes for constant declarations.

>     ```ballerina

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```ballerina
```

Fix everywhere.

    const float|decimal total = 1 + 2.0;
    ```
  

> - Revamped the logic for resolving module type definitions to properly handle cyclic type definitions as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Revamped the logic for resolving module type definitions to properly handle cyclic type definitions.
```

### Improvements

#### Support for constant declarations without a type descriptor

> Constants can now be declared without specifying a type descriptor. Previously it was required to specify a type descriptor except with numeric and string literal expressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Constants can now be declared without specifying a type descriptor. Previously, it was required to specify a type descriptor except with numeric and string literal expressions.
```

> Constants can now be declared without specifying a type descriptor. Previously it was required to specify a type descriptor except with numeric and string literal expressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Constants can now be declared without specifying a type descriptor. Previously it was required to specify a type descriptor except with numeric and string literal expressions.
```

Reviewer: These are descriptions under the topic. Don't have to be bullet points.

Reviewer 2: The bullet points were added to preserve consistency with the other sections as per[1].

@anupama-pathirage - WDYT?

[1] https://ballerina.io/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.6.0#new-langintavg-function

Reviewer 2: One reason to add a bullet even though we have a single point is that if not, the standard library section will show that inconsistency highlighted a lot with these one-liners below.

<img width="867" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-16 at 20 31 36" src="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/assets/11707273/ae4fe41e-7c06-48c0-96a1-4b0ad26f7bdd">

Author: I have updated the code as you suggested @praneesha. If we are reverting it raise it here

Reviewer 3: I don't see a real value of adding a bullet points also. For standard library it makes sense as we always have very short sentences and not much code snippets or lengthy paragraphs. Here in compiler section it is different. If we think about consistency why not adding it to `Introduction of the group by and collect clauses` too? But to me adding a bullet there seems bit unnecessary.

Reviewer 2: +1 let's remove the bullet points.

Both of the following cases are allowed now.

```ballerina
const map<string> HTTP_OK = {httpCode: "200", message: "OK"};
const HTTP_BAD_REQUEST = {httpCode: "400", message: "BAD REQUEST"};
```

#### Support for unions as type descriptors in constant declarations
  

> Constant declarations with unions as type descriptors are now supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Constant declarations with unions as type descriptors are now supported.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the bullet points based on https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/7157#discussion_r1232013819.

```ballerina
const float|decimal TOTAL = 1 + 2.0;
```

#### Support for more recursive type definitions

> The type definition resolution logic has been improved to support more recursive type definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The type definition resolution logic has been improved to support more recursive type definitions.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the bullet points based on https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/7157#discussion_r1232013819.

### Improvements

> #### Improved resolving logic of constant declarations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Support for constant declarations without a type descriptor
```

> - Made the type node in constant declarations optional. Both of the following cases are valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constant declarations without a type descriptor are now supported. Both of the following cases are valid.
```

>     ```ballerina

Reviewer: Since we don't have bullet points (see previous comment), doesn't have to be indented. Please fix wherever applicable.

> Constant declarations without a type descriptor are now supported. Both of the following cases are valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constants can now be declared without specifying a type descriptor. Previously it was required to specify a type descriptor except with numeric and string literal expressions. 

Both of the following cases are allowed now.
```

>   ```ballerina

Reviewer: Indentation not required?

    const map<string> HTTP_OK = {httpCode: "200", message: "OK"};
    const HTTP_BAD_REQUEST = {httpCode: "400", message: "BAD REQUEST"};
    ```
  

> #### Support union type in constant declarations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Support for unions as type descriptors in constant declarations
```

> - Allowed union types as valid type nodes for constant declarations.

Reviewer: Update the sentence similarly, to be a proper description.

    ```ballerina
    const float|decimal TOTAL = 1 + 2.0;
    ```

> #### Improved type resolving logic of module type definitions

Reviewer: If this is only for recursive types, we can update the title.

> #### Support for restricted recursive type definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Support for more recursive type definitions
```

> - Revamped the logic for resolving module type definitions to properly handle cyclic type definitions.

Reviewer: cyclic -> recursive

> Revamped the type definition resolving logic to properly handle recursive type definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type definition resolution logic has been improved to support more recursive type definitions.
```
